about.md, before:

@def title = "About Me"

# About

~~~
<img style="width: 50%; float: right; padding: 0 10px 0 0;" src="/assets/mayall.jpg">
~~~

My name is Dylan Green, and I am currently an Astrophysics graduate student at
the University of California, Irvine. You can email me at dylanag [at] uci [dot] edu.
This page will be mostly about my hobbies and extracurricular activities.
For details on my research check the research tab.

In my free time I engage in a variety of hobbies, most of which suspiciously
seem to start with the letter 'p'. One of my primary hobbies is programming.
The largest and most expansive project I've written or worked on is by far my
chess engine, [Chrysaora](https://github.com/dylanagreen/chrysaora).
Chrysaora is written in a relatively new programming
language called Nim, and uses a neural network composed of fully connected
layers that are trained using reinforcement learning. This means that in theory
it should get better at playing chess after every game, although currently the
input parameters are of too broad a scope to support high level chess play.

Most of my free time is otherwise dedicated to my podcasts, all of which can
be found at [decorativevegetable.com](http://decorativevegetable.com/).
My cohost and I release weekly episodes
about Doctor Who as well as classic Science Fiction television.
We also write blog posts on a weekly basis, alternating authorship.
Go and check out my posts; my current favourite post that I've written
discusses the third season of Torchwood [from the perspective of First Contact](http://decorativevegetable.com/blog/children-of-earth-and-the-first-contact-archetype/).
It's great fun and both of us take pride in the shows. If we've made at least
one person laugh then we've succeeded.

If time permits I also engage in some analog photography, which means I shoot
photos on 35mm film. I use a Canon FtB, and generally shoot whatever film I
have available. The photo to the right of the Mayall 4-meter was taken on
Ultramax 400 during my observing shift in December of 2019.
The photos I think are passable (and there are few), make their home at my
[flickr account](https://www.flickr.com/photos/185938877@N04/).

Hobbies that do not necessarily have a web home but that I enjoy, and would
love to discuss with anyone interested include philately (the study and
collection of stamps) and watching an inordinate amount of movies.
During quarantine I've been watching a movie a day, so rest assured I can
talk about nearly any movie. Nearly. Recently I've also started to dabble in
using fountain pens. And that's about it! Now you know all about me.

Commit message:

Update about page to be more up to date.

about.md, after:

@def title = "About Me"

# About

~~~
<img style="width: 50%; float: right; padding: 0 10px 0 0;" src="/assets/mayall.jpg">
~~~

My name is Dylan Green, and I am currently an Astrophysics graduate student at
the University of California, Irvine. You can email me at dylanag [at] uci [dot] edu.
This page will be mostly about my hobbies and extracurricular activities.
For details on my research check the research tab.

In my free time I engage in a variety of hobbies, most of which suspiciously
seem to start with the letter 'p'. One of my primary hobbies is programming.
The largest and most expansive project I've written or worked on is by far my
chess engine, [Chrysaora](https://github.com/dylanagreen/chrysaora).
Chrysaora is written in a programming
language called Nim, and uses a neural network composed of fully connected
layers that are trained using reinforcement learning. This means that in theory
it should get better at playing chess after every game, although it doesn't
do so very well owing to the patchwork nature of the project. I have not
updated the project as of late, and would prefer to go back and rewrite it in
a more flexible language in the future.

I formerly used to co-host a variety of podcasts, all of which can
be found at [decorativevegetable.com](http://decorativevegetable.com/).
My cohost and I used to release weekly episodes
about Doctor Who as well as classic Science Fiction television.
At one point we would write blog posts on a weekly basis, alternating authorship.
Go and check out my posts; my current favourite post that I've written
discusses the third season of Torchwood [from the perspective of First Contact](http://decorativevegetable.com/blog/children-of-earth-and-the-first-contact-archetype/).
It's great fun and both of us take pride in the shows. All of the shows are
currently on hiatus, as my co-host has taken other responsibilities with his
time and my time is currently dedicated to my research.

If time permits I also engage in some analog photography, which means I shoot
photos on 35mm film. I use a Canon FtB, and generally shoot whatever film I
have available. The photo at the top of the page of the Mayall 4-meter was taken on
Ultramax 400 during my observing shift in December of 2019.
On occasion I will upload some photos to my
[flickr account](https://www.flickr.com/photos/185938877@N04/).

Hobbies that do not necessarily have a web home but that I enjoy, and would
love to discuss with anyone interested include philately (the study and
collection of stamps) and watching an inordinate amount of movies (
for more on this check out my [letterboxd account](https://letterboxd.com/StellarStarling/)).
Recently I've also started to dabble in
using fountain pens. And that's about it!
